# Assignment: Project Proposal

The project proposal consists of three parts:

1. Forming groups of 2-4 around a common idea or theme to investigate.
2. Writing a careful proposal that the group will follow in Spring
   Quarter.
3. Presenting a short 'elevator pitch' for the proposal.

## Forming Groups and Choosing a Theme (Due Wed. Feb 26)

You will work on the spring project in groups of 2-4. If you would
like to form your own group, turn in a proposed group by the deadline
above. However, *domain experts may change, add, and substract from
groups as they deem appropriate*. If you do not specify a groupmates
to work with, the domain expert will place you in a group.

### Considerations when Forming Groups

The group you form will be the team that you work with going
forward. As such, you will have to work together and make decisions
together, even if you may not 100% agree with the
choices. Thoughtfully putting together a team will help with this
process. A few things to consider:

* Try to agree on a general *theme* for what you potentially want to
  investigate in your project.
* You do *not* need to have 100% agreement on the proposal, rather you
  need to be comfortable that a general area of investigation is
  interesting to you. The specifics of proposals change as you work on
  it, and you may have to change direction anyway.
* Discuss how your strengths might complement a teammate's
  strengths. A proposal can consist of quasi-independent pieces, that
  fit individual team-member's strengths (e.g. Buidling and designing
  an ML model, a statistical investigation into data generated by a
  learning model, visualizations for results). All of these would be
  too much for a single person in a quarter; a team could manage it
  though.

## Proposal (Due Sunday Mar 8)

The proposal will form a plan for your group's spring quarter
project. The proposal will consist of the following parts:

* A description of the problem, along with its similarity and
  differences from the problem being studied in the current domain. In
  particular, it should note the scope of the data being considered
  for the investigation. Specifying the project output is also
  required (a report/paper, website, a product that does something).
* A proposed 6 week schedule with weekly goals and tasks for executing
  the proposal. (The schedule is 6 weeks to allow for tidying-up and
  work on communication, as well as for a few set-backs).

### Proposal Content Checklist

A thorough proposal should answer the following questions:
* What set of problems are being investigated? (Or what are you
  proposing to build, and what problem does that solve)?
* How do these problems relate to the domain replication project?
  - Has previous work attempted to answer these questions?
  - If not, why are these questions considered interesting? If so,
    how did they fail?
  - In what way does your investigation address a deficiency in the
    replication project?
* What are the specific methods that will be used to attempt to solve
  (a subset of) the problems in your proposal? Be specific about the
  data and techniques you plan to use.
* What is the project output? Is it a paper, website, work of art,
  tool? If your project *analyzes* data, what ways do you plan on
  communicating the analysis? If your project *generates* data, you
  still need an analysis of the generated data it produces!
* For the proposed schedule, look to the domain schedule (result
  replication) as a guide.

## Elevator Pitch (Due Wed Mar 11)

You will need to write and present an [Elevator
Pitch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elevator_pitch) for your
proposal. The elevator pitch should be under two minutes and summarize
the project proposal, and its relevance, to a non-specialist. The
elevator pitch will be:

1. Turned in on the due date above to gradescope, in writing.
2. Presented orally to the domain discussion group (either in section,
   in lab-hours, or on video, depending on the preference of the
   domain).
   
